Grow GitLab data volume in `dev` and document the process (#5348) (#5352)
DataBiosphere/azul: OPERATOR.rst

Request review of the PR from the lead.

Increase GitLab data volume size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Occasionally the GitLab data volume gets filled and the operator must attach a
> new, larger volume. Run the following command in order to create a new snapshot
> to be used by the new data volume. Using the latest snapshot in the new volume
> enables the current file system in the volume. By convention, when a new data
> volume is created, the new size should be twice the current size. At the
> discretion of the system administrator, the size may be different::
> 
>     python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --new-size [double_old_size]
> 
> **Note the log output** looking like ``# aws ec2 delete-volume --volume-id …``
> you'll use it once confirming the GitLab instance is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Occasionally the GitLab data volume will get filled near capacity and the operator must attach a
new, larger volume. Run the command below to create both a snapshot of the current data volume
and a new data volume with the specified size restored from the fresh snapshot.

By convention, when a new data volume is created, the new size should be twice the current size,
however at the discretion of the system administrator the size may be different.

    python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --new-size [double_old_size]

When running the command above watch for and take note of log output matching ``# aws ec2 delete-volume --volume-id …``.
You'll use this to delete the old data volume after confirming GitLab is up and running with the new volume.
```

> Next, deploy the ``gitlab`` component to attach the new data volume, this will
> be the only resouce being updated. Once the ``gitlab`` component has been
> deployed, start the GitLab instance by running::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, deploy the ``gitlab`` component in order to attach the new data volume, the `gitlab` aws_instance resource should 
be the only updated resource. Once the ``gitlab`` component has been
deployed, start the GitLab instance by running::
```

    python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --start-only

> Finally, SSH into the instance. Closely verify the device, size, and mount of
> the ``df`` commands, in order to gurantee that the resizeing is complete.
> Run::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, SSH into the instance to complete the setup of new new data volume. Use the ``df`` command to confirm the size and mount location.of the device, and ``resize2fs`` to adjust the mounted file system. Run::
```

Request review of the PR from the lead.

Increase GitLab data volume size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Occasionally the GitLab data volume will get filled near capacity and the

Reviewer 2: You should mention the alarm. That's what would prompt us to do all of this.

operator must attach a new, larger volume. Run the command below to create both
a snapshot of the current data volume and a new data volume with the specified
size restored from the fresh snapshot.

By convention, when a new data volume is created, the new size should be twice
the current size, however at the discretion of the system administrator the size
may be different.

    python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --new-size [double_old_size]

When running the command above watch for and take note of log output matching

> ``# aws ec2 delete-volume --volume-id …``. You'll use this to delete the old

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``# aws ec2 delete-volume --volume-id …``. You'll use this later to delete the old
```

> data volume after confirming GitLab is up and running with the new volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data volume after confirming that GitLab is up and running with the new volume.
```

> Next, deploy the ``gitlab`` component in order to attach the new data volume,
> the `gitlab` aws_instance resource should be the only updated resource. Once the
> ``gitlab`` component has been deployed, start the GitLab instance by running::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, deploy the ``gitlab`` TF component in order to attach the new data volume.
The only resource with changes in the resulting plan should be ``aws_instance.gitlab``. Once the
``gitlab`` TF component has been deployed, start the GitLab instance again by running::
```

Above, mention that the instance is stopped after the --new-size command.

    python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --start-only

Finally, SSH into the instance to complete the setup of new new data volume. Use
the ``df`` command to confirm the size and mount location.of the device, and
``resize2fs`` to adjust the mounted file system. Run::

    df # Verify device /dev/nvme1n1 is mounted on /mnt/gitlab, note available size
    sudo resize2fs /dev/nvme1n1
    df # Verify the new available size is larger

The output of the last ``df`` command should inform of the success of these

> operations. A different (larger) available size from the first run indicates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
operations. A larger available size compared to the first run indicates
```

that the resizing operation was successful. You can now delete the old data

> volume by running the ``aws ec2 delete-volume …`` command, displayed in the
> first script invocation output logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
volume by running the ``aws ec2 delete-volume …`` command from above.
```

Request review of the PR from the lead.

Increase GitLab data volume size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When the CloudWatch alarm for high disk usage on the GitLab data volume goes
off, you must attach a new, larger volume to the instance. Run the command below
to create both a snapshot of the current data volume and a new data volume with
the specified size restored from that snapshot.

Discuss the desired new size with the system administrator before running the
command::

>     python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --new-size [double_old_size]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --new-size [new_size]
```

When this command finishes, it will leave the instance in a stopped state. Take

> note of the log output matching ``aws ec2 delete-volume --volume-id …``. You'll

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
note of the command logged by the script. You'll
```

> use this command later to delete the old data volume after confirming that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use it later to delete the old data volume after confirming that
```

GitLab is up and running with the new volume attached.

Next, deploy the ``gitlab`` TF component in order to attach the new data volume.
The only resource with changes in the resulting plan should be
``aws_instance.gitlab``. Once the ``gitlab`` TF component has been deployed,
start the GitLab instance again by running::

    python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --start-only

Finally, SSH into the instance to complete the setup of new data volume. Use the
``df`` command to confirm the size and mount point of the device, and

> ``resize2fs`` to adjust the mounted file system. Run::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``resize2fs`` to grow the size of the mounted file system so that it matches that of the volume. Run::
```

    df # Verify device /dev/nvme1n1 is mounted on /mnt/gitlab, note available size
    sudo resize2fs /dev/nvme1n1
    df # Verify the new available size is larger

The output of the last ``df`` command should inform of the success of these
operations. A larger available size compared to the first run indicates that
the resizing operation was successful. You can now delete the old data volume by

> running the ``aws ec2 delete-volume …`` command from above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
running the deletion command you noted earlier.
```

Request review of the PR from the lead.

Increase GitLab data volume size
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Occasionally a CloudWatch alarm will notify of the need to up size the GitLab

> data volume and the operator must attach a new, larger volume. Run the command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the CloudWatch alarm for high disk usage on the GitLab data volume goes off, you must attach a new, larger volume to the instance. Run the command
```

below to create both a snapshot of the current data volume and a new data volume

> with the specified size restored from the fresh snapshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with the specified size restored from that snapshot.
```

> By convention, when a new data volume is created, the new size should be twice
> the current size, however at the discretion of the system administrator the size
> may be different.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Discuss the desired new size with the system administrator before running the command.
```

    python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --new-size [double_old_size]

> When this command finishes, it will leave the instance in a stopped state, take

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When this command finishes, it will leave the instance in a stopped state. Take
```

note of the log output matching ``aws ec2 delete-volume --volume-id …``. You'll
use this command later to delete the old data volume after confirming that

> GitLab is up and running with the new volume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitLab is up and running with the new volume attached.
```

Next, deploy the ``gitlab`` TF component in order to attach the new data volume.
The only resource with changes in the resulting plan should be
``aws_instance.gitlab``. Once the ``gitlab`` TF component has been deployed,
start the GitLab instance again by running::

    python scripts/create_gitlab_snapshot.py --start-only

> Finally, SSH into the instance to complete the setup of new new data volume. Use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, SSH into the instance to complete the setup of new data volume. Use
```

> the ``df`` command to confirm the size and mount location of the device, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the ``df`` command to confirm the size and mount point of the device, and
```

``resize2fs`` to adjust the mounted file system. Run::

    df # Verify device /dev/nvme1n1 is mounted on /mnt/gitlab, note available size
    sudo resize2fs /dev/nvme1n1
    df # Verify the new available size is larger

The output of the last ``df`` command should inform of the success of these
operations. A larger available size compared to the first run indicates that
the resizing operation was successful. You can now delete the old data volume by

> running the ``aws ec2 delete-volume …`` command from avobe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
running the ``aws ec2 delete-volume …`` command from above.
```
